.TH MATRIOSHA 1 "2026-04-23" "Matriosha 2.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
matriosha \- encrypted agent memory CLI with local and managed modes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B matriosha
.RI [ GLOBAL\ FLAGS ]
.I <group>
.I <verb>
.RI [ ARGS ]
.RI [ FLAGS ]
.PP
.B matriosha completion
.RI { bash | zsh | fish }
.PP
.B matriosha completion install
.RI [ --shell\ auto|bash|zsh|fish ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B matriosha
is a Python CLI for encrypted agent memory with verifiable integrity.
It supports a Local mode for sovereign offline operation and a Managed mode for subscription-backed sync, quota, and policy workflows.
Memory interchange is deterministic (binary/base64) with SHA-256 and Merkle integrity metadata.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Local commands
.TP
.B mode show
Display current active profile mode.
.TP
.B mode set <local|managed>
Switch mode for the selected profile.
.TP
.B vault init
Initialize local vault key material (local mode only).
.TP
.B vault verify
Verify vault integrity.
.TP
.B vault rotate
Rotate vault cryptographic material.
.TP
.B vault export
Export local vault artifacts.
.TP
.B memory remember
Store encrypted memory.
.TP
.B memory recall
Recall memory by identifier.
.TP
.B memory search
Semantic search over memory.
.TP
.B memory list
List stored memories.
.TP
.B memory delete
Delete memory (supports time and semantic filters).
.TP
.B memory compress
Compress/deduplicate related memories.
.TP
.B memory decompress
Expand compressed memory payloads.
.TP
.B status
Show health and mode status.
.TP
.B doctor
Run diagnostic checks.
.SS Managed commands
.TP
.B auth login
Authenticate CLI for managed workflows; first login auto-provisions managed key custody.
.TP
.B auth logout
Clear managed authentication state.
.TP
.B auth whoami
Show authenticated managed identity.
.TP
.B auth switch
Switch authenticated managed identity.
.TP
.B billing status
Show subscription state, agent quota, and storage cap/usage.
.TP
.B billing subscribe
Start subscription with 3-agent billing blocks.
.TP
.B billing upgrade
Add one additional 3-agent / +3 GB block.
.TP
.B billing cancel
Cancel at period end.
.TP
.B quota status
Show storage usage and cap details.
.TP
.B vault sync
Sync managed/local vault state.
.SS Agent commands
.TP
.B token generate
Create an agent token.
.TP
.B token list
List issued tokens.
.TP
.B token revoke
Revoke a token.
.TP
.B token inspect
Inspect token metadata.
.TP
.B agent connect
Connect an agent to workspace.
.TP
.B agent list
List connected agents.
.TP
.B agent remove
Remove connected agent.
.SS Settings and utility commands
.TP
.B completion bash
Print Bash completion script.
.TP
.B completion zsh
Print Zsh completion script.
.TP
.B completion fish
Print Fish completion script.
.TP
.B completion install [--shell auto|bash|zsh|fish]
Install completion script block into shell config file with duplicate-safe markers.
.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.B --json
Emit machine-readable JSON output.
.TP
.B --plain
Disable rich formatting.
.TP
.B --verbose, -v
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B --debug
Enable debug output.
.TP
.B --profile <name>
Use named profile.
.TP
.B --mode <local|managed>
Override runtime mode for a single invocation.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
Usage/argument error.
.TP
.B 10
Integrity verification error.
.TP
.B 20
Authentication error.
.TP
.B 30
Mode guard error (command not allowed in current mode).
.TP
.B 40
Network or remote service error.
.TP
.B 99
Unknown/internal error.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.bashrc
Bash startup file used by
.B matriosha completion install
for Bash.
.TP
.I ~/.zshrc
Zsh startup file used by completion installer for Zsh.
.TP
.I ~/.config/fish/config.fish
Fish startup file used by completion installer for Fish.
.TP
.I # >>> matriosha completion >>> ... # <<< matriosha completion <<<
Marker block used to avoid duplicate completion installation.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SHELL
Used by
.B matriosha completion install
for shell auto-detection.
.TP
.B MATRIOSHA_MANAGED_TOKEN
Managed-mode auth token for remote-managed commands.
.TP
.B STRIPE_SECRET_KEY
Stripe secret key for managed billing operations.
.TP
.B STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET
Stripe webhook verification secret for billing flows.
.TP
.B SUPABASE_URL
Supabase endpoint for managed services.
.TP
.B SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY
Privileged Supabase key for service operations.
.TP
.B SUPABASE_ANON_KEY
Supabase anon key used by managed client workflows.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Show current mode:
.PP
.B matriosha mode show
.PP
Switch to managed mode:
.PP
.B matriosha mode set managed
.PP
Remember encrypted memory:
.PP
.B matriosha memory remember "meeting notes" --tags work
.PP
Get quota status:
.PP
.B matriosha quota status
.PP
Print completion script:
.PP
.B matriosha completion zsh
.PP
Install completion script with auto-detection:
.PP
.B matriosha completion install
.PP
Install completion script with explicit shell:
.PP
.B matriosha completion install --shell fish
